---
title: Use modern fetch API instead of XMLHttpRequest
issue: #7702
---
# Storefront
* Deprecated `HttpClient` (`src/service/http-client.service.js`). Use native fetch-API requests instead.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `address-manager.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this.httpClient` in `ajax-modal.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._httpClient` in `buy-box.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._httpClient` in `buy-box.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._httpClient` in `basic-captcha.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `cms-gdpr-video-element.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._httpClient` in `cookie-configuration.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `form-ajax-submit.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `form-auto-submit.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `form-cms-handler.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `form-country-state-select.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated method `initClient()` in `form-country-state-select.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `cart-widget.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `search-widget.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this.httpClient` in `listing.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._client` in `offcanvas-menu.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this.client` in `offcanvas-cart.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this._httpClient` in `variant-switch.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this.httpClient` in `guest-wishlist-page.plugin.js`.
    * Deprecated property `this.httpClient` in `persist-wishlist.plugin.js`.
* Removed the internal `HttpClient` usages and replaced it with native fetch-API requests.
___
# Upgrade Information
## Use modern fetch API instead of HttpClient in the Storefront
With increased browser support we are starting to use the more modern fetch-API instead of the old XMLHttpRequest to send ajax requests in the Storefront.

**The `HttpClient` (`src/service/http-client.service.js`) is deprecated.** The client abstraction was introduced because the XMLHttpRequest is cumbersome to write. 
But with fetch it is more reasonable to write the request directly instead of introducing yet another client class that needs to be imported.
The old `HttpClient` is still usable until the next major. All callbacks and methods that run after the request remain as is to ensure backward-compatibility.

The examples below show the implementation using `.then()`. For new implementations you can also use the `async/await` code-style. 
The existing implementations are using `.then()` to avoid re-structuring public methods to `async/await` and keep the known "callback-like" structure in place. 

### Example GET request
#### Old:
```js
import HttpClient from 'src/service/http-client.service';

const client = new HttpClient();

client.get(
    '/example/get/route',
    (response) => {
        // Do something with the response after a successful request
    }
);
```

#### New:
It is recommended to send the header `'X-Requested-With': 'XMLHttpRequest'`. It is used as a convention to let the backend determine if a request is an ajax-request.
```js
fetch('/example/get/route', {
    headers: { 'X-Requested-With': 'XMLHttpRequest' },
})
    .then(response => response.text())
    .then(response => {
        // Do something with the response after a successful request
    });
```
* No more ES-import of the service needed.
* No more class instantiation `new HttpClient()` needed.
* Since `GET` is the default method in fetch, we don't need to declare the method.
* The headers need to be sent.
* The fetch-API uses promises instead of callbacks.

### Example POST request
#### Old:
```js
import HttpClient from 'src/service/http-client.service';

const client = new HttpClient();

client.post(
    '/example/post/route',
    JSON.stringify({ example: 'data' }),
    (response) => {
        // Do something with the response after a successful request
    }
);
```

#### New:
If JSON data is being sent, please also include header `'Content-Type': 'application/json'`.
```js
fetch('/example/post/route', {
    method: 'POST',
    body: JSON.stringify({ example: 'data' }),
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'X-Requested-With': 'XMLHttpRequest',
    },
})
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(response => {
        // Do something with the response after a successful request
    });
```
* Using `{ method: 'POST' }` instead of `HttpClient.post()`.
* Using the `body` key to pass the request payload.
* The headers need to be sent.
